---
title: Task Force Publishes Report on Eradicating Anti-Christian Bias and Restoring
  Religious Liberty
url: http://www.hud.gov/news/hud-no-26-030
date: '2026-04-30'
author: C59094
feed_url: https://hud.gov/rss.xml
---
Task Force Publishes Report on Eradicating Anti-Christian Bias and Restoring Religious Liberty C59094 Thu, 04/30/2026 - 13:54 Task Force Publishes Report on Eradicating Anti-Christian Bias and Restoring Religious Liberty Report details the Biden administration’s radical efforts to punish Christians and highlights President Trump’s efforts to restore religious liberty Washington, DC - Today, the Task Force to Eradicate Anti-Christian Bias published a report detailing how the Biden administration’s policies spread anti-Christian bias throughout the federal government. The Department of Housing and Urban Development worked closely with the Department of Justice on the report to bring attention to these egregious actions and detail the Trump administration’s commitment to restore religious liberty in our country. “Throughout our nation’s history, faith and freedom have worked hand in hand to bring harmony and strength to our great nation,” said Secretary Scott Turner. “The Biden administration jeopardized that harmony by singling out Christians, minimizing their contributions, and silencing sincerely held beliefs. Our Founding Fathers created a nation to stand against this same kind of religious oppression, and we cannot allow it to take root again. Under President Trump’s leadership, we are ending pervasive anti-Christian bias in the federal government, protecting Americans’ First Amendment rights, and returning our country to its founding Judeo-Christian principles.” The 200-page report collects the detailed findings of the 17 federal agencies on the Task Force, as well as other agencies who uncovered religious discrimination. The report examines how the Biden administration pushed its radical policy agenda, even when its actions violated Christians' beliefs and free exercise of their faith. The Biden administration’s actions infringed on matters of deep personal importance to every American: life, family, marriage, self-identity, education, and medical decisions. To support these findings, the report contains more than 1,100 footnotes and over 300 pages of exhibits. In creating HUD’s section of the report, the Department conducted a thorough review of its policies, practices, grant requirements, regulations, and rules. HUD also received information from victims while reviewing the impacts of the Biden administration’s anti-Christian bias. The report touches on a broad array of federal policies and programs, including conscience rights, the Johnson Amendment, fines against Christian universities, women’s sports, vaccine mandates, and the exclusion of Christians from public programs, among many others. The Task Force also highlights related findings at the state and local level and in the private sector. Among the Task Force’s many findings, HUD discovered alarming instances of anti-Christian bias at the Department: Participation in HUD programs was conditioned on compliance with the Biden administration’s woke gender identity nondiscrimination requirements, even if those requirements conflicted with providers’ religious beliefs. Faith-based homeless service providers raised concerns regarding biological men entering women-only shelters, which the Biden administration required based on a radical misinterpretation of the law. A HUD employee was denied promotions multiple times and criticized for having a Bible and cross in their cubicle. Their supervisor even warned others to “beware” of them, simply because of their religious beliefs. While this report details the Biden administration’s outrageous actions against Christians, it also demonstrates how the Trump administration is restoring the rights of Christians—and all Americans—to practice their faith without fear of government punishment. For example: HUD proposed a rule to remove radical definitions of gender identity, sexual orientation, and gender, replacing them with sex across nearly 50 regulations. HUD’s Equal Access Rule would be adjusted to protect women’s shelters and replace the prohibition on discrimination against “gender identity” in all Community Planning and Development programs. HUD is working to ensure faith-based providers can compete for federal funding on a level playing field by accepting religious accommodations throughout HUD’s programs. In accordance with Office and Personnel Management guidance, HUD is allowing personal religious expression by agency employees to the greatest extent possible. HUD is committed to preserving religious liberty for all and will continue to support President Trump’s mandate to eradicate anti-Christian bias throughout the federal government. Read the full report here . Follow @SecretaryTurner on X , FB , and Instagram . Follow @HUDgov on X , FB , and Instagram . HUD.gov
